{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2512
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red32\green32\blue32;\red22\green21\blue22;\red246\green246\blue246;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red32\green32\blue32;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c16863\c16863\c16863;\cssrgb\c11373\c10980\c11373;\cssrgb\c97255\c97255\c97255;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c80000;\cssrgb\c16863\c16863\c16863;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25000\viewh19640\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 MechaCar Analysis 
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 MPG Regression 
\f1\b0 \
\
Used multiple linear regression, designed a linear model to predict the mpg of MechaCar prototypes using all the variables in the MechaCar dataset.\
\
I found the variables / coefficients that most provided a non-random amount of variance to the mpg values in the dataset were for the variables Vehicle Length and Ground Clearance because their coefficients were the largest two.  \
Vehicle Length coefficient = 6.267e+00\
Ground Clearance coefficient = 3.546+00\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl600\partightenfactor0
\cf2 For a deeper dive, I ran the Summary on all.  The significant level for Vehicle Length and Ground Clearance each were 0 so a good indication that they each have an impact on mpg of a car since significant levels < 5% are considered statistically significant.  \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Is the slope of the linear model considered to be zero? No, because the adjusted R-squared is 0.6825 which means that 68% of the time there is a correlation between the length of a car, it\'92s ground clearance and the mpg for each.\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl600\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 Does this linear model predict mpg of MechaCar prototypes effectively? \cf3 \cb4 It is a good start but the findings are not very strong as some of the variables, Vehicle Weight and Spoiler Angle have larger p-values so are most likely not great influencers on mpg.   I recommend collecting additional data for further analysis. The p-value for the dataset is 5.35e-11 indicting that all the variables within the dataset most likely do have an impact on mpg.  Therefore, we do not reject the hypothesis that these variable have an impact on mpg.\
\

\f0\b Suspension Coil Summary of PSI
\f1\b0 \
\
Mean: 1498.78\
Median: 1500\
Variance: 62.29356\
Standard Deviation: 7.892627\
\
Found there were three different manufacturing lots on initial review of dataset.  Therefore decided to do the statistics for each lot as there could be meaningful differences / similarities between the lots.\
Lot 1:\
Mean: 1500\
Median: 1500\
Variance: 0.98\
Standard Deviation: 0.990\
\
Lot 2:\
Mean: 1500\
Median: 1500\
Variance: 7.47\
Standard Deviation: 2.73\
\
Lot 3:\
Mean: 1496\
Median: 1498\
Variance: 170\
Standard Deviation: 13.0\
\
\cf2 \cb5 The \cf2 design specifications for the MechaCar suspension coils dictate that the variance of the suspension coils must not exceed 100 pounds per inch. After inspecting the dataset I noticed there were three different manufacturing lots.  I decided to run the summary on the filtered dataset.  After running the summary, t\cf3 \cb4 he differences in the results of the statical summary in Lot 3 from Lots 1  and  2 led me to do some further analysis of the lots to try to better determine if\cf2 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  \cf6 \cb5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec6 the \cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 current manufacturing data meets the design specification.  The \cf6 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec6 design specifications for the MechaCar suspension coils dictate that the variance of the suspension coils must not exceed 100 pounds per inch. No, they do not because \cf3 \cb4 \outl0\strokewidth0 Lot 3  has a variance of 170. \
\cf6 \cb5 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs40 \cf6 \

\f0\b Suspension Coil T-Test
\f1\b0 \
\

\fs36 Determined if the suspension coil\'92s pound-per-inch results were statistically different from the mean population results of 1,500 pounds per inch by creating two different tables with random samples to run the Welch Two Sample t-test based on a mean, mu, of 1500. Each table had different results:\
sample_table mean = 1500.52\
sample_table2 mean = 1498.46\
\
Diving a little deeper to try to understand why sample_table2 had mean lower than 1500, I ran a t-test on each lot.\
\
Lot 1 mean: 1500\
Lot 2 mean: 1500.2\
Lot 3 mean: 1496.14\
\
Again, the data point to Lot 3 as having sub-standard manufacturing and the cause for the difference in the means between the two tables.\

\fs40 \

\f0\b Design My Own Study:  Analysis of mtcars: Correlation Between Horsepower and MPG
\f1\b0 \
\

\fs36 After reviewing the mtcars dataset, i\cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 t seemed that horsepower could be a metric for comparative effects on mpg. Although the MechaCar data did not include it, the mtcar data did, so a test run was done on a sample of 32 cars of the mtdata to see if horsepower would be worthy of further examination. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Null Hypothesis - Horsepower, hp, has an impact on mpg.\
\
Alternative Hypothesis - Horsepower, hp, does not have an impact on mpg.\cf6 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 I did a multiple linear regression to see the correlation between all variables and mpg.  Then I ran a linear regression on horsepower, hp, alone.  Not satisfied, I created a summary table_mtcars variable to hold the results of the summary of all variables.  I found horsepower had a p- value of 0.3350, which is greater than 0.05 so it indicates there is weak evidence against the null hypothesis, so I fail to reject the null hypothesis. To further substantiate my findings of the impact of horsepower, hp, on mpg, I ran a summary on it alone.  The results showed the p-value was very small, < 2e-16, indicating a significance level of 0.\
\
Diving deeper, I ran a summary on horsepower, hp.\
\
Mean: 146.6875\
Median: 123\
Standard Deviation: 68.56287\
Variance: 4700.867\
\cf6 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 Once I had a mean, I created a random sample table so I could run a t-test.  The p-value equaled 0.4699 which is less than 0.5 so I will not reject my null hypothesis.\
\
The evidence suggests that there is a correlation between horsepower, hp, and mpg so I will not reject the null hypothesis.\
\
This suggests that \cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 this is worthy analysis. Therefore I recommend to design a MechaCar horsepower study since I did not reject my null hypothesis.
\fs40 \cf6 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec6 \
\
\
\

\fs36 \cf2 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl600\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
}